The skills that used to be really valued
in product managers are changing
substantially.
>> It's going to be chaos. Our industry is
very much in stress. Nothing's constant.
Everyone's in a state of alert. If you
talk to product leaders 3 years ago,
their day was largely moving
information. The information mover is
essentially going to become a dinosaur.
>> I just did this report on the job
market. Interestingly, we have the most
open PM roles globally in 3 plus years.
>> This is a complete renaissance for the
product industry, but it comes with a
lot of strings attached. In the next 12
to 24 months, we're going to see massive
shedding of staffs, and then massive
rehiring. You might see a company shed
30,000 and hire 8,000, but the 8,000
people are going to all be AI-first. The
builders are going to have the time of
their lives, but if you don't love
building stuff, you're in trouble.
>> What are some things that people should
do to thrive in this future that is
emerging?
>> You have to find ability to increase
pace. You got to find that reserve. The
next 2 years requires a lot of fire in
the belly.
>> Today, my guest is Nikhil Singhal.
Nikhil is, in my opinion, right now, the
number one best source of career advice
for product managers and for tech people
in general. He was a long-time exec at
Meta and at Google, CPO at Credit Karma.
He's also four-time founder, and he
leads the best community out there for
heads of product and chief product
officers called the Skip community. He
also has a larger community for tech
professionals called the Skip coach. And
through these communities and his 30
years of building consumer products at
scale, and also his podcast, which I've
recently partnered with, he is
constantly gathering and meeting with
and speaking with top product leaders
around the world about what's happening
and what's changing in the lives of
product managers and tech workers in
general. And the answer is a lot. This
is an episode that every single product
person needs to listen to and you won't
find a more real talk and actionable
overview of what is going on and where
things are headed in your career and
also what you should be doing about it
right now. Seriously, do not miss this
conversation.
Before we get into it, don't forget to
check out Lenny's product pass.com for
an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, I bring you
Nikhil Singhal.
Nikhil, thank you so much for being here
and welcome back to the podcast.
>> Yeah, thank you Lenny. I appreciate uh
version two. Uh and all my notes were
like Lenny version two. So, I'm quite
excited about uh being uh back on the
show. You've done so well since the last
time that I I visited and uh appreciate
the opportunity to to to share with you
uh my current thinking.
>> Yeah, so you were actually one of the
launch episodes, the first 20-30 guests
that I had on the podcast. This was two
or three years ago, something like that
and a lot has changed in the world of
product management since then. And we're
going to be basically spending this
entire episode talking about what is
changing in the role and the career of a
product manager.
And what I especially love about you,
talking to you and hearing your
insights, is you don't sugarcoat what's
going on. You're very real about like
here's what you need to know about what
is going on. So, we're going to be
talking about the good and the bad and
just like a lot of advice for product
managers in particular.
To kick things off, give us just kind of
the big picture view
into what is changing for product
managers, the good and then maybe the
the scary stuff.
>> Yeah, it'd be a lot shorter of an
episode if we just talked about what
didn't change.
>> Mhm. Wow.
>> I I think that says a lot.
>> Maybe I'll start with this. I think that
when we first had chatted, it was like
in maybe the the end of COVID, I think.
The ZIRP era, as we called it, zero
interest, uh
you know, kind of free money from from
investors, was just kind of cresting. Uh
we talked about how ICs are now more in
demand. We talked about how these first
round of layoffs are existing, that
ex-growth companies are going to be a
struggle. But if you really talk to
product leaders that were kind of in
that mode three three years ago,
they were they weren't very happy.
And what I mean by that is their day was
largely a day of moving information from
one to another. Let me a frame
the way that my team is presenting the
information to my boss, so that that
person can frame it to their boss's
boss.
And generally the function had become
extremely focused on responsibility
without authority.
And so that is the greatest form of
workplace stress.
Now, we don't talk about that. We talk
about all the stresses that we have
today. Boy, AI is going to replace our
function, etc., etc. But But the honest
truth is if you think back, if you've
been in product for a handful of years,
that was a tough time.
Um now, people were being paid well.
Layoffs were just starting. They were
the industry was huge. It was the
biggest it's ever been. There were more
product managers, more CPOs than ever
had existed in history.
Um what's changed is
people are having fun again,
particularly product folks, because
they're able to build. They don't have
to rely on as many people to have
impact. There's much more of a direct
connection to their ideas and their
ability to test and and and connect
their
product instincts to their customers.
And so in many ways this is a a complete
renaissance for the product industry.
Uh for a lot of the strongest builders
in the group that I'm associated with,
compensation is an all-time high. They
have more offers than they've ever seen.
They see their next job maybe being a
founder, maybe being a CEO, maybe being
in another function other than product,
but being in the C-level. They're
feeling like there's more opportunities
than ever before. So that's kind of a
good. Uh I would say, you know, honesty
it comes with a lot of strings attached.
I think that
it starts with just being exhausted.
I have I've never seen as as uh industry
that's more tired than they are now.
Um I mean I think we were tired during
COVID, but for different reasons.
Now I think uh nothing's constant.
There's you know, once you figure out
how to do your job in the past you would
be fine for a decade
until you became a manager, and then you
would be fine until you became an
executive. Now if you don't stay up in
the next 3 months, they'll be like, "Oh,
you're you're doing that thing that we
we stopped doing that 3 months ago. We
don't do that anymore. Oh, you know,
PRDs? Well, you know, that's not even a
pri- you know, everything feels like
everyone's in a state of alert.
And I think that in addition, now you're
hearing like tens of thousands of people
are being shed by larger employers that
are also hiring and paying triple wages.
So like that's like mind-boggling, but
you know, depending on your perspective,
you might be on one side or the other.
And I think that particularly a lot of
the mid-career people people that are
like let's call it in their 30s you
know, life plays this cruel trick on you
where you end up having your best most
energetic years of your career, your
power years of career cuz you finally
have figured out what you're doing.
But at the same time, you may be
settling down, you may have kids, your
parents are aging.
And you for the first time have those
aches and pains in your body, you have
to think about diet, you can't eat
cookies every day, you have to exercise.
And so between your health, the family
and friends that you hardly ever see,
your parents which are now worrying
because you have to build a different
relationship with them, they're becoming
dependent, your actual dependence with
your kids, and then oh by the way, your
work which is you know, will take
whatever time you have, but it also
changes all the time. That generation is
insanely stressed historically, and now
we're like, "Hey, stay up, you know,
what's the latest in cloud code? They
changed it this morning." I It's it's
dizzying. So, I think there's joy, but
there's fatigue in a way that I haven't
quite seen before.
>> Wow. What a What an incredible overview.
This episode is brought to you by our
season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What
do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel,
Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of
other winning companies all have in
common? They are all powered by WorkOS.
If you're building a product for the
enterprise, you've felt the pain of
integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBAC,
audit logs, and other features required
by large companies. WorkOS turns those
deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a
modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally
every startup that I'm an investor in
that starts to expand upmarket ends up
working with WorkOS. And that's because
they are the best. Whether you are
seed-stage startup trying to land your
first enterprise customer or unicorn
expanding globally, WorkOS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. It's
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack where
they have actual engineers waiting to
answer your questions. WorkOS allows you
to build faster with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
>> So you talk to, I don't know, hundreds
of product leaders regularly. You run
these communities for CPOs and senior
product leaders. I guess on balance are
people doing Would you say better than
the last than like 2 3 years ago or is
it just like, oh man, everyone's like
burning out and in big trouble?
>> I think that how people would describe
it and how I describe it is slightly
different.
I tend to be more around like when
people are doing better, I think they
have more choice and they're at long
term going to be happier.
From that perspective,
I think people are better at the top of
their game are doing much better.
For the reasons I mentioned, they're
just more interested in their jobs.
I think that they're more stressed.
But I think they're stressed because
they wish they had more time to feed the
LLM at night,
which is a different form of stress than
the stress that they experienced in the
past, which is I don't know if my point
or my team is going to get through the
malaise of decisioning that exists here.
So I think that people are doing better.
However, I think our industry is very
much in stress. I think that on average
people, even if they're doing well, they
feel more stressed because they worry
they're either not keeping up or they
worry that this industry is going to
change and it's going to essentially
they'll be roadkill along that way.
And so that has to do a lot to do with,
you you people are not, you know,
generally that arrogant and they don't
always believe that everything's going
to work itself out and there's a lot of
evidence that things are changing and so
change is hard on humans. And so I think
that there's a combination of both, but
I think the best people tend to be
feeling great right now.
>> We're going to talk about of the people
that are doing best, what are they doing
differently? But before we get there,
let's think about the future of where
things are heading. You talked about a
bunch of the things that are have
already changed and how different the
world of product management is.
What do you think will change further in
the next couple years to give people a
sense of where things are heading?
>> Yeah, I I I had this
this meetup last Thursday. And it was a
fun meetup, you know, I have a group of
about 125 heads of products and we tend
to gather once a month in San Francisco
and during this meetup, you know, we
took an approach where lots of people
were building things for their own
companies or on their own to help
themselves with productivity and so we
said, "Hey, why don't we do a show and
tell?
Why don't we just have you, if you're a
head of product, just show kind of
things that are interesting, that are
worth worth it explaining." And so we
had a startup go up and and show what
they're doing and then we had some
in-size companies and some late-stage
companies.
And you know, what it was few things
that were really palpable. Um one was
there was so much joy in the audience
that people were like, "Oh, I've been
building this thing and let me show
you." And everyone had their laptop and
they were like one-upping each other and
they're like, "My chief of staff does
that. My chief of staff does this
thing." So that sort of builds on my
point that people are having fun being
hands-on.
But the second thing is that the way
they talk about how product decisions
are made,
the way they talked about how
prioritization is determined, the way
they talked about how information moves
within the company,
look like completely foreign animal from
anything that I had experienced when I
was working, you know, a few years back.
And I got up on stage and I said, you
know, if you think about how we work
right now and how you folks are all
talking about, you know, using agents in
your
enterprise, how you're using chief of
staff apps to essentially drive more
productivity, how all of you are
essentially spending all your time just
focusing on judgment.
And you're spending all your time taking
anything that can be obsoleted and
writing software around it. I think none
of that was even in the language, even
in the vernacular, 12 months ago.
So now, what is it going to look like in
12 months? And everyone kind of had a
pause and they're like, yeah, this was
sort of un, you know, it was impossible
to anticipate what this conversation
will look like 12 months ago. It's
pretty hard to understand where things
are going. But but I would say, I think
maybe I'll answer your question around
where things are going in the next
couple years
based on kind of how I think companies
are going to change and how people are
going to change.
So I think on the company side,
I think that and then maybe I'll slant
it more towards product for a second. So
product leaders will increasingly get
paid and be asked to drive judgment
and then be the tip of the sphere on
trying to essentially obsolete
everything else through software,
through AI,
through agents.
And this is partly why there's a lot of
excitement. Because just to be very
honest with you, and you were a PM and I
was a PM,
most of the stuff that you didn't like
doing
are the things that AI is really taking
a real
crack at.
And so, um, I think that's super
interesting.
Uh, I think that there's a ton of that
change that's going to happen. Some
companies are are doing it now, some
companies will do it, but within 2
years, I think, most of these companies
will obsolete all the mechanical parts
of building product. I think that there
will be 10 to 100 times more
uh changes that will be presented to
products than ever before. Because now
there are the cost of testing something,
the cost of changing is going to be
much, much lower.
And so, when things are changing that
rapidly, that judgment piece becomes
like pretty much paramount.
>> Just to make sure we understand when you
say judgment, what do you What should
people be thinking of when you when you
talk about judgment?
>> I think that it's sort of evaluating
whether the thing that we're changing is
a good or bad thing.
>> Mhm.
>> I think that it's also evaluating
whether, you know, we should change the
product in one way versus another. You
can't
build 100 custom versions of the same
product. It doesn't
It affects your brand, it affects the
maintainability, etc. So, when customers
are asking for things, when you're
trying to think through how do you build
something that's sustainable,
differentiated? That's judgment.
And and evaluating whether it's
successfully met that criteria, whether
it's worth building and worth releasing.
It's almost like the system skill that's
existed from the beginning of the
internet. It's, you know, hey, it's not
about the feature, it's around the
system that we're putting together, the
platform, if you will,
that's, you know, kind of enabling
capability, right? So, that's the the
judgment of, boy, there's all these
changes coming in, and they're going to
happen more frequently.
You know, as an aside, because of all
these changes, I think that in 2 years,
I think there won't be any more bad
software. I mean, this is maybe more of
a wish and a dream than a prediction,
but I think that if you count in the
week in your given week, how much bad
software you
uh come back with, right? You know, I
have a house and it has like 15
different apps that run to control
everything from the shades to the air
conditioner to the you know garage door.
And almost every one of those apps are
forward. They don't work particularly
well. They never get monitored. Things
break, you know, no one ever checks it.
Like all that stuff's going to get
fixed. Because someone's going to
basically sit down and tell Claude to
fix it and it's just going to fix it.
And it's going to fix it. It's going to
be more secure etc. So I think that
that's changing and so people will have
a lot less tolerance for for bad
software.
>> Along those lines just real quick in a
quick aside to your side, uh the prompt
I constantly find myself using with
Codex and Claude is just how can we make
the product experience better? How can
we make this better?
And you just ask that and it's like
here's 10 ways we can make it better.
And so he's like, "Wow, these are really
good ideas." And then cool, do it. Do do
the first seven.
>> Exactly. There's going to be like some
super skill that's going to run against
every piece of software that's in in the
app store
and it's going to basically go in and
it's going to fix them all. And then
they're going to get released and
they're going to be like, "Oh, that this
sucks. It's just a significantly more
consistent, better, less buggy
experience and more maintainable." And
so that's why there's a lot of optimism,
right? Because there's these changes can
be done pretty automatically.
>> Yeah, just like it's easy to just to
kind of finish that loop real quick.
Like so many of these apps are built by
engineers that are not the best
engineers. They're engineers that, you
know, like uh companies hire that don't
really care about their software.
They're just like this is just like a
side thing building this
thing that we have just app. We just
need to build an app. Let's find someone
to build it. They're not like product
first companies. And now all of these
companies have access to the most
skilled software engineer, Claude Code,
a Codex and all these other tools. So I
I I totally see what you're saying. Like
everyone has the best engineers
available now.
And it's just English to ask them to
build the better thing or build a better
app. So that's a really interesting
point.
>> It still boggles my mind. You know,
everyone's like, "Oh, what's the cutting
edge?" and all that. I mean, I think
they're still I don't know if this is
true even today, but very recently there
were more lines of COBOL
than I think any other language
out there. And mainframe sales continue
to do pretty well and they're an
unusually large line item for companies
like IBM.
And part of the reason why these systems
like you know, I I think I spent an hour
and a half trying to get my MileagePlus
account on United to work correctly with
my daughter's phone and all this other
stuff. Partly because these systems are
so complicated, but they're built in
mainframes, right? And a lot of the
engineers, and this is going to sound
kind of morbid, but you know, I think
it's true is a lot a lot of engineers
have are are dead. Like they literally
are passed away. They were written, you
know, 10 20 years ago. And and like
going in and touching that code is, you
know, the probably the last thing anyone
wants to do. So they nobody goes in
there, you know.
It's all downside. Now, we can change
that. So I'm like very excited about
what it means to go in and improve
things that people take for granted,
right? That that's a big one. That's a
bit of an aside. I think that
the other thing that I think is worth
kind of signaling is
I think that the way we we the skills
that you need to be a
effective in today's world is a
is an acceleration of what we were
talking about last episode. We were
talking about ICs, we were talking about
hands-on, we were talking about opinion
even back then.
Before, you know, Claude and ChatGPT and
others kind of came came out.
I think what we're now seeing is
companies are looking very very
carefully at their staffing.
And they're asking themselves, one, do
we need this many people? Did we over
hire?
And part of the reason is they're
looking, hey, maybe we doubled our staff
in the last 5 years. Lots of companies
that are public have done that.
Did we get twice as much for them?
You know, it was funny when I was at
Google,
um
you know, over 10, 15 years ago,
we used to ask ourselves, you know, I
was on an ancillary team. I wasn't in
their search or the ads team. We used to
ask ourselves, like, how many people are
really needed for Google to hit their
numbers?
And you know, there were back at the
time 20, 30, 40,000 people.
And you know,
if you ask someone who wasn't in tech,
you're like, ah, probably like 90% of
those folks, obviously. And you know,
the answer's probably closer to like 9%.
You know, probably you need like 500
people to keep the lights on and to
build that business. You don't need 25,
30, 40,000 people. So, there's a huge
amount of overhead where companies hire
not just because they want to, you know,
have bureaucrats, because they want to
expand. They want to try new things.
But I think that there's a judgment day
that's come back, where companies are
like, look,
we aren't getting as much for the staff
that we grew in the last 5 years, and
this AI thing requires a totally
different skill set.
The combination is going to mean this
year, I predict, in the next 12 to 24
months, we're going to see massive
shedding of staffs, and then massive
re-hiring.
Um but the you might see a company shed
30,000 and hire 8,000. But the 8,000
people they're going to hire are going
to all be AI first.
And the 30,000 they're going to let go
of are going to be in combination of we
didn't get as much for those folks that
we needed, and we wanted to sort of set
the we want to set the the destination
differently with a much lighter uh
payload. And that's that's dark. That's
going to make this uh year and the next
two year, you know, year going to be
pretty pretty challenging. So, I'll
transition a little bit to my thoughts
on people, but I pause for a second to
see if this resonates with you.
>> That's uh scary to hear.
We're going to talk about what folks
listening can do to
be in
to do their best to be in that second
bucket of being rehired and mean and
kept cuz there's a lot you can do and
there's a lot of people that know they
need to change and adjust and they're
not doing anything and that we want to
talk about maybe some of the blockers
there. One thing I'll note is I I should
have mentioned this earlier. I just did
this uh report on job the job market and
interestingly as of today at least we
have the most open PM roles globally at
tech companies
uh in three plus years.
The last time it was this high was kind
of during COVID basically. So, there's
some good news there at least for the PM
role. I don't know.
>> Did that surprise you, Lenny?
>> Yeah, it did cuz there's always the
sense that you know, why do we need PMs?
What's the point? We have AI just build
stuff and like my sense I've always been
saying this. I feel like the PM skill is
the most important valuable skill of all
the skills and I know every role thinks
this about their role. It's like, no,
design. We design more than anything
now. Like but but I feel like what you
said where it's
the deciding what to build, deciding if
this is good and great and ready and
prioritizing. I feel like that's what
remains. So, uh so to me it makes sense.
>> Your report came out for two of this
time because it was right before I was
preparing to kind of come on the show
and there are the three points I was
going to make is, you know, builders are
going to have the time of their lives.
Comps actually up and the Bay Area is,
you know, essentially back in in uh in
in favor. And I think those three things
came very
much loud and clear in your report. Um
and I think your the question around,
hey, why are product managers doing so
well? Why are there so many jobs when in
reality a lot of product people that all
of us know are struggling to find a role
or we're hearing about these layoffs. I
think it depends on how you define what
a product manager is and I think that
for the first time I think that we did
have a dramatic shift in what's defined.
We three years ago talked about hey
product managers, there's lots of
archetypes. Some archetypes are actually
more in favor. This was the IC
conversation.
Builder conversation. Now what we're
essentially saying is the the the
information mover
is essentially going to become a
dinosaur.
And I think about half of the product
people
that were kind of that grew into the
industry, you know, have that skill and
superpower.
And then there were a set of people who
got into product cuz they like to build
stuff.
You know, and you know, folks like
yourself who were founder who that was
sort of the motivation in the joining
kind of the industry and then they found
themselves into this thing called
product management. Those ones are
builders. You know, and those people are
the ones that are being hired by your
Surbhi Parekh.
I mean those product managers, everybody
wants a builder.
And I think that interestingly lots of
engineers are builders, lots of
designers are builders,
lots of uh marketing folks are builders.
And I think builders wanted is going to
be the big tagline for the next couple
of years. And it is so fun to build.
I I I'll bet you, and this is a
prediction, that if you had to choose
between preparing a podcast and sitting
in code acts or sitting in Claude code
and like working on your laptop, you
would prefer the latter.
>> It is so fun. Yeah, just like progress.
It just makes so much fun. It's like
look at this thing go. It's getting
better. It's getting better.
>> mean
>> when I was a PM, I used to take a break
and go to and go change the light bulbs
in the house.
And the reason why I would change the
light bulbs is
that light bulb was broken.
But then I replaced it and the light
came on and man was that satisfying.
Because in a product job,
there is very few days of satisfaction.
Because you don't really have the
ability to see something broken that
gets fixed. It's just part of the
challenge in having responsibility
without authority. Until now.
Now, you can participate in the joy. You
can create a design. You don't have to
wait for the designer and convince the
designer to go and actually work through
this or to put your stuff on a backlog.
You don't have to do that.
And so I think that the builders are
going to have the time of their lives.
And I think they're going to be very
focused on judgment. I think that
they're going to invade other functions.
I think there's going to be, you know,
when when I started the group 5 years
ago,
we had for the first two to three years
until we got to about 60-70 people in
this community of of head of product, we
had one founder.
In the last 12 months, as we've gone to
about 125, we have 14 founders.
14 people
essentially have decided that their next
job was not to take another product
executive role, but to found.
Founding CEO is now open to us. I I have
one person, very senior person on you
know, in my group who interviewed for a
CHRO position.
Because they wanted a product manager
background for the CHRO position.
>> CHRO? What is CHRO?
>> That's the chief HR person in the
company.
Right? So, you would never think that an
HR person would be a former product
manager.
But now, forward-leaning companies are
starting to say, "Hey, we need someone
who can bring this obsolescence skill,
this judgment skill, this empowerment
skill, this builder skill to the
function." In fact, the function might
be easier to learn
than the other parts of the job. And,
you know, we're seeing that trend that
product builders are going to have, you
know, both a broader range of
opportunities up and down the stack, and
it won't be product managers, and
engineers can become product leaders and
product builders, and and all of this
blurring of the lines is going to take
place. I think that, unfortunately, the
flip side has to be mentioned.
I think that non-builders,
and I think that anyone who sort of sees
themselves as not loving, like sitting
down and building something. There may
be reasons why, we'll get into why you
may not be in a position to to find the
time, let's say. But, if you're not a
builder, if you're like, "Look, my skill
was never to be I'm not really into
tech." Like, people say this all the
time. "Oh, I'm not really into tech. I I
just really found it to be a lucrative
job. It's a you know, it's a role where
my ability to communicate, my ability to
move information was, you know, where I
ended up enjoying it. I love team
building." You know, those kinds of
nerds, which by the way, I love all
those things. Um but if you don't love
building stuff, you're in trouble.
And and I mentioned about half the
people are in that camp. So, we're going
to have that challenge where they're
going to have to find, perhaps leave the
tech industry. They might have to, you
know, it might be that they um
you know, want to go build a a new
business outside of tech, but use some
of these AI tools, or maybe they they
want to find a job completely foreign to
tech. But, I think that this non-builder
piece is a is a mirror image of the
builder growth that story that we're
seeing.
>> There's so many directions we can go
here. One thing I want to throw out,
it's kind of a hot take, and this came
from a chat I just had with Amol, the
head of growth at growth at Anthropic.
So, he's head of growth, he's a PM, and
he had this really interesting point
that as engineers can do so much more,
PMs are getting squeezed because they
have to stay on top of so many things,
so many features, so many ideas, so much
doc, so many things being said to them.
And there's this push for PMs at
companies to ship yards, build stuff
themselves.
And what we took away from that chat is
like the leverage that PMs often have is
is a lot higher not spending time coding
and shipping,
but instead just like staying on top of
all this stuff. And he's like, "We need
more PMs now. There's so much for PMs to
do cuz engineers are so so fast. So,
there's still need for like prototyping
to explore ideas and ideate and get
feedback and align." But, he had an
interesting take that like, "I don't
want to be Like, it's better I don't
spend time shipping stuff. It's better I
do higher leverage work as a PM."
>> It depends what he means by shipping
stuff
because I think that if you have an
engineering team of 50 people building
things for your customers,
and you're like, "Hey, I want to be the
51st."
Because that's how I get leverage. I'm
like, "Yeah, it's kind of a cheap
knockoff of an engineer."
If on the other hand, the thing that
you're building is ways to stay on top
of what the 50 people are are doing,
when in the past
that was building tickets and backlogs
and all of the things that we used to do
to figure out organizations, manage
stand-ups, you know, that's the
information overload that's happening.
What we saw when the CPOs got together
is all of the things they're building
are ways to drive efficiency out of
their product organizations. They're
inside the building
kind of development efforts.
And I'm not sure that for the next five
years we'll continue to build software
that way.
But I think in the next two years people
are going to change the product
operating system that they're working
on. And we're already seeing companies
that like stand up and they say, "Hey,
we've fully automated the way we do
product reviews. We've fully automated
the way we do product stand up." So, to
his point, look if there's 15 10 times
the amount of stuff happening, we need
judgment to determine whether it's good.
These are good or bad changes. And right
now if it's manual, we're cooked.
So, it's a combination of hiring good
product builders with judgment and then
hiring increasingly folks whose entire
job is to kind of build the internal
tools necessary to improve the
decisioning, but it's not through hiring
of humans and building management ethos,
which is what it used to be in Reserve.
It's actually through technology, but
it's a totally different way of building
software. And that's what gets people
excited cuz they're like, "Wow, if I do
this, I don't have to ever do a status
report." I mean, that was a comment that
was made. "I hate doing status reports."
So, now I just wrote something and my
boss is happier cuz they get more
detail.
And at that to me is incredibly
exciting, but it is a different
direction of what you're trying to
deliver than something that goes out the
door.
>> That is such a good distinction and and
makes all the sense. Basically, it's
uh
make yourself scale through software as
much as possible. There's a big
opportunity and it's fun. It's like
you're building your own thing.
>> That's right. That's right. I think a
few other things that I would just note
around how things are going to change in
next couple years. I think that adults
are still going to be needed.
I think companies are going to grow.
They're going to grow quickly. I think
those that are driving some of these
initiatives are are classic founders.
And AI is great at supplementing a lot
of things, but I think
judgement comes in the form of
uh a combination of expertise and
wisdom.
And so I think that increasingly I hear
from my groups that hey, I'm attractive
to this company because I have wisdom,
but I stay hands-on. I have credibility
with the founder, so I can have a
conversation with that individual in his
or her language, but I have weight to my
thinking. I have seen the movie. I have
experience that actually would help them
as they take this turn. So adults are
still going to be important. I think
pace
will continue to go up
partly because people will want to feed
the beast, the the sort of LLMs that are
running at night. And I think partly
because there's just such an opportunity
to keep moving so much faster. Uh and I
think that's going to be dizzying and
I'm not excited about what that causes
for burnout. Um sadly, I think that
geography and and actually diversity is
going to take a step back. I think that
we were very good about driving more
breadth as we grew the industry, we
started looking at people who were from
different backgrounds to populate it
including different locations. But I
think that because the AI wave is so
heavily and you know, coming from the
the the the Bay Area and because
companies are hiring fewer folks,
they're hiring people that look and act
like themselves. So age, gender, I think
you know, ethnic backgrounds,
all of those are taking a hit. And I
think that we will have stepped back
quite a number of years in the diversity
of what we do. And so I worry I mean
this is my personal worry, but I worry
about that um probably more now than I
did in the last 5 years. Um because I
think it's an underbelly of what we're
we're seeing. And I don't think that
anyone's intentionally doing anything,
but I think when pace is so high, the
fact is that, you know,
women are having kids and in those power
years and and they just don't have the
time
to a lot to spending their nights and
weekends in cloud code. And so that's an
impact. And you know, we don't talk
about it as an industry, but it's
absolutely true. Um and then the last
thing I would just say, and maybe this
is this goes into some of the the advice
as well, is
I think that the one of the most
surprising shifts we're seeing is, you
know, your brands don't matter as much
as how modern you are in your ability to
deliver product.
In in the past, I think for the last 10
years, it's like have you seen the movie
before?
And I remember I even in this last
podcast episode we did, Lenny, we talked
about, "Hey, brands matter. You really
need to make sure
>> Like personal brands.
>> Yeah, personal brands. Hey, I've worked
for this company. They've delivered
products. They've been at scale. So then
people are like, "Oh, that person
certainly knows what they're doing,
right?" And and you know, it's like,
"Well, tell me about all the different
experiences you've had." But now if
every way of building software and how
we deliver product is completely alien
to how it was in the last, you know, 10
years, how you deliver it in that sort
of version one is going to be less and
less relevant.
So lots and lots of feedback from that
I'm hearing from interviews is like put
you in a scenario, what tools do you
use, what's your judgment, and how do
you think?
It's not about 5 years ago and you
shipped this thing, what was your
thinking that went into it.
And so, how modern you are now becomes
the career advice, not did you pick up
the established brands cuz what if the
established brands is very much an
working in a way that's not current.
You work there for 6 years, come out and
it feels like you're in a totally
different world, right? So,
that's why I think the next 2 years and
these changes are so profound and and
frankly confusing to people.
>> That is such an interesting insight that
the logo, like used to be fancy to have
all these logos on your
resume, and now you're saying sometimes
that may hurt you because that company's
not seen as a very AI forward company,
and second of all, people are looking
for just like what have you actually
done?
You're actually aware what's going on.
>> Well, I was just going to say some of
those biggest brands, it's hard to even
talk about what you've done.
You know, it's like, you know, if you're
working in Meta and you spent 2 years
and I managed to make this, you know,
piece of this algorithm, you know, go a
little faster and by the way it had a
huge impact and, you know, frankly it
was incredibly hard to navigate the
hallways and to make that decision and
to find incrementality. I mean, as
someone who has worked there, I
understand and respect that and that is
a promotable, you know, achievement.
But it just falls very flat
on a conversation where someone's like
living in the future and product is now
totally different, right? So, that
distinction is the is the thing that I
want to just call out that, hey, that's
happening every day right now.
>> So, what you're saying there, and which
is a really powerful point, is that the
skills that used to be really valued in
product managers are changing pretty
substantially.
>> Yeah, and in fact, maybe
almost flipped upside down in terms of
importance. You know, in some ways we
start our careers as builders, many of
us,
and then we get taught that leverage,
scale, organizing, streamline,
empowering, enabling
don't do the build yourself, get others
to do it. Stop working on the car, work
on the factory, right? That's that's the
That is the maturation of our industry.
And then you find out that well, what if
it turns out the scale can be done
very differently and all we care about
is your opinion and what you build.
That's
very jarring and that's what we're
living through right now.
>> So, let's follow this thread of specific
advice to
PMs right now
whether they're mid-career, senior,
getting started. What are some specific
things that you think people should do
to do well in this emerging future?
>> Change is really hard for us.
And I think as humans we're not really
designed to change very easily. Like if
you think about it, you know, I was
thinking
you know, about why is it hard for us to
change when in some ways change can lead
us to much better outcomes.
You know, we're almost like told to
change less as we grow older.
You know, when you're a kid you fall
down a ton, but like when was the last
time you fell down?
>> Uh
Not not often except my my son loves to
pretend like we're falling. So, there's
a lot of pretend fall.
>> And when you pretend fall, it's probably
pretty drawing. It's probably relatively
new.
>> Yeah, for him it's so fun. He loves it,
but yeah, for me it's like a long way
such a long ways down.
>> Yeah, and I think that it's funny cuz
you watch kids and it's like normal for
them to reinvent everything they do. Oh,
I'm learning to crawl. Oh, now there's
walking thing. Yeah, crawling is not
That's not for me. You know, it's why
kids learn languages so quickly because
they are not afraid to make mistakes and
they go through things much more
rapidly. It's why you teach your kids to
learn how to ski early
because boy, you know, I just made a
decision. Hey, I've never been a skier
and I'm just like too old to do it.
I think that
we are trained to find a happy medium
and then make as few changes as
possible. Find a partner, get settled
down. You know, you find a job, try to
stay. It's a failure to transition to a
new job if you can avoid it. You know,
that's our entire
model and so we create also in some ways
a mental block around this idea of
reinventing oneself. You know, you when
you are told to reinvent, to when you
are told to change, you first thing you
think about is is it really necessary?
Boy, it seems exhausting.
I worked so hard to get here. Why would
I need to?
And
I think in the most inner psyche of some
of us, it's that just wasn't the deal.
The deal was I did what I was supposed
to, went to school, I worked hard, I got
a job, I built the brand, I got to be a
manager, I'm making the income, I have
the you know, whatever it might be, the
partner, the the the family, you know,
all the stuff.
You're telling me
after all this time
I got to start over?
Like
it sounds fun. You read Twitter and
you're like, wow, all these people are
doing all this crazy stuff. Then the
back of your mind is like, I just don't
know why. Why did we get here? I I don't
I don't want to do it. I want to go back
to the world where I can just keep doing
things. I think that this
block is actually at the heart of the
matter today. And and it's a skill,
reinvention.
And it it requires time.
But time is so hard to find your power
years. You know, for the reasons we
mentioned with so many you know, your
goal when you're in your power years is
to equally disappoint everyone in your
life. Which sounds like a horrible
statement, but it's true. You have to
you you have 6 hours to give, 8 hours to
give, 12 hours to give, and you have 20
hours of demand. What is your
prioritization mechanism?
I am going to equally disappoint
everyone. Not disappoint one group. My
parents will not be more disappointed
than my kids, than my health, than my
family, than my friends, than my
partner, than my work, than you know, my
retirement account. Like that's
essentially what your my mindset is.
It's I need to equally disappoint
everyone. Now you're telling me
that the number one thing is to reinvent
when I'm barely able to manage this this
disappointment algorithm. It's quite
dark. But, I think that, you know, that
there's this setup. And then the worst
part is these two
One is, "Okay, fine. I'll put the week
I'll take a week off and I'll go figure
out what people are doing and what the
latest is. And then it turns out 3
months later that week off
was is now antiquated. You got to keep
doing it because the target keeps
changing. It's not like I went from not
having a job to having a new job, and
then I kind of grinned and bear and got
through it, and now I'm back in flow.
It's like I'm never in flow because I
got to keep doing this over and over and
over again. And the the most surprising
observation I made is that the
the ones that were the best at working
in the past,
the the ones that mastered the old game,
find it the hardest to go through this
reinvention stage. It's this sort of
shadow superpower thing that I talk
about. You know, you've the better you
are at mastering one system, the less
likely you are to sort of recognize the
new one because your entire world is
like this is working to me. And so, the
weaker you are, the more excited you are
about changing.
Hey, what I'm doing isn't working. Might
as well change it. But, if you're really
good, you have no incentive to change.
And perhaps even your employer sees you
doing great, and the company itself is
in this moment. So, all of these things,
whether it's the shadow, whether it's
the exhaustion, whether it's the time,
whether it's the fact that the target's
moving, creates this reluctance to
reinvent. But, the number one piece of
advice to answer your question is you
have to have the courage. You have to
believe. You have to have the power to
essentially say, "Look, I know the way
we work is changing, and I need to stay
modern. I need to stay current. So, I am
going to cross that mental threshold.
And I'm going to prioritize that above
all else. That crossing the threshold is
the key. And I'll talk a little bit
about how one does that, but I think
that I mean if there was one thing to
get away from today's discussion is
every person listening to this podcast
needs to find it in themselves to cross
the threshold around embracing
reinvention. That is the world that we
live in now.
>> Damn, Nick. This hits hard. Uh I told
people you uh you don't sugarcoat stuff,
and this is this is what we're
experiencing now.
>> I am so excited to tell you about this
season's supporting sponsor, Vanta.
Vanta helps over 15,000 companies, like
Cursor, Ramp, Duolingo, Snowflake, and
Atlassian earn and prove trust with
their customers. Teams are building and
shipping products faster than ever
thanks to AI. But, as a result, the
amount of risk being introduced into
your product and your business is higher
than it's ever been. Every security
leader that I talk to is feeling the
increasing weight of protecting their
organization, their business, and not to
mention their customer data. Because
things are moving so fast, they are
constantly reacting, having to guess at
priorities, and having to make do with
outdated solutions. Vanta automates
compliance and risk management with over
35 security and privacy frameworks,
including SOC 2, ISO 27001, and HIPAA.
This helps companies get compliant fast
and stay compliant. More than ever
before, trust has the power to make or
break your business. Learn more at
vanta.com/lenny.
And as a listener of this podcast, you
get $1,000 off Vanta. That's
vanta.com/lenny.
>> What I think about as you talk about
this is um
I don't know if you saw this, they asked
all the heads of the AI labs, like Demis
and Sam Altman and Dario, just like,
okay, if everybody agreed
to slow down and stop this stuff, okay,
would you would you do it? And they all
said, yep.
Which says a lot about just like they're
all like
freaked out a bit about how fast
everything's going, how much is
changing. And then there's the reality
of but that is not going to happen
because the the game theory of it all is
it doesn't work. You can't slow down cuz
no no one will actually slow down.
Whoever doesn't has a huge advantage.
And so I think a it's just a big part of
this
insight is just like this is happening.
And there's nothing you can do to slow
it down or stop it. And you can either
try to pretend like it's no big deal and
it's going to be all right, or you can
as you said, get over this
hump of just like, okay, I need to lean
into this and see see what I can do.
>> Well, and and maybe there's a baby
version of this that perhaps provides a
bit more kind of solace and optimism. A
baby version of this is that, you know,
the way that people did, let's call it
product management back in the day when
HP and Cisco and AMD and these other
companies built products that were, you
know, physical hardware, they had long
engineering cycles. There is a
discipline called product management
that was birthed. And that discipline
had a very, very specific,
uh, very structured way of working that
was essentially imploded
when the internet companies came along
and Google for one and built the APM
program because they felt like, "Hey,
this product thing that exists in the
market isn't really what we need. And
we're not seeing success. And in fact,
we're going to just trend from the
beginning this new breed." And, you
know, that then birthed a lot of the
current product managers, Microsoft and
Meta and other big employers started to
kind of create a new new version. And
for the first few years,
there was it was very jarring because
everything that they did that we they
call product management resembled old
product management pretty much in name
only.
And there wasn't like you go to become
an uh business school, uh, you know, you
get a business school degree and all of
a sudden you're product manager. You
would have to work, you have to build
some expertise, then you'd have to come
in and and help organize and collaborate
and all this other good stuff. The next
couple of years are going to be like
that where
you know, every 3 months we're going to
have more agents, different forms of
judgment, they're blurring the lines on
what the the role and responsibility.
People from different backgrounds coming
in, people leaving the it's going to be
chaos.
But as a couple of years go by, things
will settle.
Companies will be built a certain way
and it won't be that you'll continue to
change the way you're working. You'll
have reached some form of optimization.
We're just not in that optimization in
any way, shape, or form right now.
And so, the speed of iteration and how
you think about well, look, my job is
not to move information. My job is to
evaluate. I know I have to think through
what is success look like, whether this
makes sense for the system. It's a
totally different skill.
But after a couple of years, there's
going to be some routineness to it.
There's going to be some training.
There's going to be consistency. The job
you had next is going to look like the
previous job. A lots of this is So, all
I'm making a point is that you need to
cross the threshold to stay modern
because things are changing. But it I
don't want to send the point that for
the next 30 years, you're going to be on
this merry-go-round that's going to spin
faster and faster and faster. And then
you're just going to have to run off the
merry-go-round and go vomit in the
corner. That's not at all what I'm
suggesting. I'm just saying that right
now is the moment when if you love
building, you have to stay current
because you will be happier and you will
be more relevant. And if you don't love
building, you have to recognize the
industry's moving away from you. That is
the key point. And and I don't think
there's a person that's looking at the
current way of building product. I don't
think there's a person who's been on
this podcast that would disagree with
that statement.
>> That is a really
empowering point to make there that this
is not forever, that it's a couple years
potentially maybe I don't know, could be
a little bit longer, but it's not a
forever thing where you have to do this.
You have to lock in and and sacrifice
forever. It's This is the moment to to
get on the rocket, to get on the ship. I
don't know. It's a nanobot. The boat. Uh
whatever metaphor you want to use.
>> Whatever transportation.
>> So, I think that makes that would make
me feel better. I think the other like I
don't know, the the good again, just to
remind people like this, you know,
there's a it sucks to have to change.
The good as you shared earlier, comp has
never been higher. There's a lot of open
roles. Uh people that are embracing this
are having a lot of fun.
Like you're like most PMs are sitting
there all day waiting for stuff to
happen, waiting for meetings and
approvals, and all this lying in and all
this PR reviews. And now it's like you
can ship stuff so often. Like there's so
much good that is happening. Maybe just
remind us again of anything else there
just to inspire people to like Okay,
this is worth it.
>> that let's go to the individual you're
describing. There's someone who's
sitting who's
really afraid, who's a builder, who's
like, "Man, my job is changing so
rapidly and I'm so nervous and I have to
think through what's my career going to
look like."
But I I tend to ask the question like,
"Do you really love your day?"
Like if you put green, yellow, and red
next to the meetings you had and did
that for a week and then we looked at
the color chart,
I'll bet you the vast majority of uh PMs
that are in a product organization, they
show mostly yellow and red.
And I'm telling you, the ones that are
moving into more of this build mode,
it's mostly green and yellow.
And uh and and yet
yet most of them are sitting very very
afraid, feeling stuck. So what I'm
suggesting is how do you then transition
mentally and then physically into a
moment of going from this moment of fear
and being on the sidelines to being in
the day.
What I have noticed,
and this is sort of a big kind of
surprise to me is there's a moment where
they experience the first joy
in using the new tools. Everyone has a
story and it's always different but it's
super personal. It's going to be like,
"Oh, I was doing it a certain way and
then all of a sudden I built this
thing."
And I oftentimes it's like my partner
and I used this app that I built or I
built a chief of staff app to keep track
of my inbox. Or I I manage, you know,
the lights in my house using this thing.
And it's some silly thing.
And usually it accompanies with a story
like and I stayed up all night.
Or I spent a bunch of time talking to my
friends or or or or or or hacking away
or I just spent time talking to Claude
about it. You know, even my wife has a
story about how she has this business
that she's thinking through and she went
from using the AI's to you know, do the
business plan, to actually do test
market. And everyone has this moment of
joy and then they're like, "Oh, it's
like uh they're they're caught a bug."
And at that moment is when they cross
the threshold between fear to joy.
And joy is the biggest antidote to
burnout and it creates opportunity
because the moment you have joy, the
moment it doesn't feel like work.
And I think most product management
feels like work if you're not building.
And we are now moving into a world where
product management will be building and
joy, not work.
So, you just need to find a path to get
there. And the moment you do, you're the
rest of your human psyche creates time,
doesn't feel like you're disappointing
others, and builds energy. Cuz people
have more energy than they realize.
They're just so exhausted by the
monotony of what was defined as product
management. And so, that is the number
one piece of advice is have you found
joy? Now, there's a class of person
who's like, "None of this is joyful.
Like, I find the whole thing to be kind
of boring, nauseating. I don't really
like it." I'm like, "Well, then you're
probably not in for the next version of
our industry."
You know, and and you should be
respectful of that and you should be
honest with yourself.
But there's a lot of product people that
are right now very anxious that actually
are going to be happier once they cross
the chasm and all they need to do is
find a way to create that moment of joy,
you know, whether that's an app on the
side other app that at your work. And if
you're a leader listening to this, you
should find those moments of joy in your
staff. Because that's contagious and it
gets people excited and that's what, you
know, that's why I like doing what I do.
It's like I like building stuff and I
caught the bug and you know, I'm all
there all the time and you know, I I I
try to find TV shows that I can vibe
code in parallel to because well, I want
to watch TV, but I want to be vibe
coding at the same time. It's like
>> What's a good show for vibe coding?
>> I think well, I I a lot of it Amazon
Prime shows are good.
>> I guess not for vibe
>> I mean, they're built on books. You
know, these books are like they're like
structured and all that. So, you know,
Alex Cross or you know, Jack Ryan. Uh
you know, what's hilarious is uh and you
know, when you get older, you stop you
you remember shows that you love, but
you don't remember the plot. So, one
time I just binge watch a season of 24.
The show that I loved when back in the
day, but frankly, I watched it and I
kind of knew what was going on, but I
vibe coded the whole time because it was
like, hey, I'm paying attention here,
but I'm staying engaged.
>> Well, let's actually follow this thread.
Just like what's what's it what's your
AI stack? What are you using to build
and what what are something what is what
something you built and something vibe
coded?
>> I kind of been pretty all in on Claude
these last 3 months. I was uh for a
month pretty aggressive on Codex um
because I found some of their newer
stuff to be uh especially the with with
sort of the highest level of reasoning
to be to be quite advanced. I find it
hard to switch between tools, so I try
to standardize to be to be direct. Like
the things that I build, I build uh a
bunch of web properties for my
community. So, you know, anytime I see
something that I can obsolete and code,
I try to build code around it. So, if
you had 100 people, one natural thing
you want people to do is to meet each
other.
And, you know, 100 people can't meet 99
others. So, it's it's you have to be
thoughtful around who's the best person
to meet. And how do you match people up?
How do you make sure that you match
people with people they haven't met
before? You know, what are their halves
or their wants? That entire thing used
to be me sitting down and thinking like,
"Oh, you know, Jay-Z would really
appreciate meeting Annie, but I don't
know if they've met before." Now, I
write software to do that. I write an
agent that goes in and actually does
matching. I write an agent to figure
out, "Hey, what are all the jobs that my
head of products are hiring? How do we
make sure that we make those available,
but then build a mailing list of folks
who I think when they're interested in
work and get matched up automatically."
So, like the next generation of
recruiting. Um, I I think a lot about
using AI for content. So, when I sit
down, um, I have an AI that takes
questions from people and then it's
trained on my content like yours, and it
gives answers, but then I read those
questions, evaluate the answers, and I'm
like, "Hey, this is a theme I'm
hearing." And then I sit down and I
write down, "When do the LLMs and I
disagree?" I go through and it's all of
these things are are
anything that I'm doing that I think I
can, you know, replicate, I try to
obsolete myself. You know, when I first
started my first job, I asked the best
engineer that I worked with, who still
is one of the best engineers I've ever
met, "What what's the what's the
definition of a great engineer?"
And
you know, I thought it would be like,
"Oh, someone who's got this degree or is
well versed in this technology stack."
He's like, "Well, the best engineer I
know is my dad."
And of course this is before tech in
that case and he's like
and my dad's definition is still but my
favorite which is an engineer is someone
who obsoletes themselves from everything
they do.
That's the definition of a great
engineer.
And I've taken that to every job that
I've worked at. And it's funny because
you'll run into people that are like I
don't know I don't want to obsolete
myself that's my job. And I was like ah
I think if I obsolete it'll be a better
job for me.
What AI has done
is turn that you know it has basically
put an eight ball on that. Like if you
can if you you can obsolete by just
asking the AIs to do this for you. So
why I'm saying that is I'm my stack is
what can I do to obsolete anything and
everything I do on a daily basis.
>> That is super cool. I love this I love
hearing these stories. Like what I find
is the best
tactic here is just solve your own
problem.
Think about some doesn't not great in
your day-to-day or something you just
want to
uh improve and just like and it's like
it sounds so easy. All you do is go to I
don't know lovable or install cloud code
download code X and just tell it
I want to
uh build a dashboard to control my
Sonos.
And then it just tells you it all like
walks you through everything you need to
explore. And that's that's a pretty
advanced thing to try but it's just like
English like it sounds like I have no no
no how to do this.
Like you just tell it here's what I want
to do and just like a person and it
helps you figure it out.
>> And well and I I agree with you and then
I think the question is like what skill
do you have to have like for a while I
was like oh that's a systems engineering
skill because you need to be able to
like train you know the AIs to go after
things. But then watching my wife and
how she works and she's not an engineer
by any means
and she's getting tons of value. You
don't even need to be an engineer. You
just have to be opinionated on what you
want to see.
>> And know what you want yeah know what
know what good looks like.
>> And then the moment that you get it,
it's when the light bulb turns on when
it wasn't working before, and now you
sit down and there's this moment where
it's like, "Hey, I used to have to go
and work to do this,
but now my agents do this.
And then what's the next agent I can do
to make my life a little bit better? And
that's where you catch the bug."
>> It's such a powerful thought that your
job can be much more joyful as a product
manager,
as any function, but you know, we're
focusing on PMs. Just like if you look
at your pie chart today of how much hap-
how happy you are during the day, you
can actually be much happier
in this future. And I think that's hard
for people to like really think just
realize, "Oh, wow. Okay, I can actually
love this job so much more?" They did
not imagine that.
>> Yeah, and I think that it's because
you're staring at change.
And I think change is such an alarm
bell, it's hard to hear
the voice that says, "The thing that you
are changing are the things you don't
love."
Because change is so hard for us that
it's so scary, you know? And I I respect
that. So, I think that if your listeners
are able to sort of understand that hey,
there is a world which is better, but I
have to go through the tunnel, and the
tunnel sucks. And the tunnel may mean
that I'm going to have to change jobs. I
mean, my prediction is the vast majority
of people that are listening to this
will be in a different job in the next 5
years.
Because they will either choose to move
to something because they
will that company will struggle to stay
modern, just like we're describing.
People need to stay modern, companies
need to stay modern. Or their companies
are going to be shedding and re- and re-
returning off staff. And so, because
change is apparent, I think it's just so
deafening that people are very much
gun-shy to be uh excited about something
that's sort of forced on them. And you
You let's be honest, it's been forced on
everyone. And you know, not something
that they chose. So, that that's why I
have a lot of empathy, but when I talk
to people, I try to dig through, forget
what's happened, and you know, why? How
do we make the best out of it? And the
best is pretty good.
>> So, say we've convinced a listener,
okay, I need to make a change. I need to
lean into this. I need to take this
seriously. I can't just sit back and
hope it all works out, okay? And then
they maybe found a moment of joy.
They built something that's super cool
and just like, "Hey, check this out."
What other advice do you have for folks
listening to help them be
to sur- I don't know. Let's not say
survive, but just like thrive in this
future that is emerging for product
people.
>> thrive. I I definitely think that you
you know, you find that moment of joy,
you have the engineering mindset, which
is, "Hey, I want to obsolete myself on
something that I do today." Again,
reduce my the the little less joyful
parts of my job is a good starting
point.
I think that, you know, you have to find
ability to increase pace.
You know, this is not a job This is the
next 2 years requires a lot of um
fire in the belly.
A lot of agency that I know everyone
talks about. So, for example, if you
were to leave a job and start a new job,
you probably don't view the new job year
one at the same pace that you
you know, viewed your year five in your
last job. You need to kind of bring it.
If you have a new relationship,
you know, and if you've come off of a
long-term relationship, my suspicion is
your first year of that relationship,
you put your best foot on. You This is
what I'm asking. You got to find that
reserve. You've got to make time. You've
got to maybe disappoint others in a way
that you haven't in the past in order to
create time for you to stay current,
find that joy, obsolete yourself from
the things that are are are not worth
it.
I think the other thing you have to do
is you have to swallow your ego.
You know, I don't want a single person
saying, "Hey, I was a XYZ leader.
I would only consider roles at that same
level." I I want people This is an
extension of our last conversation. It's
not only is it in vogue to be hands-on,
and I see it's kind of a necessity.
I need everyone to sort of say, "Look,
if everything's changing, it doesn't
matter what we've done in the past. That
brand doesn't matter, as we discussed.
You have to have an egoless perspective
of how to stay current.
And you would be not only willing, but
actually look for ways to even take
something smaller
in order to make sure that you're kind
of going through the tunnel correctly.
And then, ultimately, part of the way we
we do we swallow that ego is you stay
long-term focused. You say, "Look, if
the way we build product is changing so
aggressively,
my job is to to spend the next couple
years being on the boat that's, you
know, leaving the station and going to
the new world.
Once I get to the new world, the cream
rises to the top. I'll take my skills,
my leadership, and I'll go through it.
But in the next few years, if
everything's changing, I definitely want
to be, you know, current. And that means
you have to have a long-term focus. You
know, my property is called the skip.
The community and everything, they all
kind of come down to this word called
the skip. And I chose that word because
the best career advice is always not
thinking about the next move, but the
move after.
What's the skip job? What's the skip
opportunity? Well, in this world, it's
not about what's the opportunity now,
and what's the journey. It's about
making sure that your skip opportunity
is saved, and you are able to get that
high salary, you're able to get one of
those premier builder jobs. And that's
the world that you have to have, and the
mindset you have to have.
>> Something you mentioned earlier was
really interesting that in the next 5
years you predict that most people's
jobs will be very different.
What do you imagine there? Like will
there still be this product manager
role? Will PMs need to move closer to
engineering? What's kind of like
the Venn diagrams or spectrum you're
seeing of where
current PMs may go?
>> Yeah, I I definitely think that there's
a world where PMs
go
to every industry as the is what I would
call the agents of change.
Because the PMs are the ones that can
talk.
They're the ones that have the broadest
view of the organization, but they look
at it through the technical lens.
And my hope is that most of our PMs are
the first to the tools and hence they're
the change agents within their company.
So let's just play this out. In the next
year
we start to see all these product
organizations changing the way they
build product.
And all of a sudden the way we build
product is gentrified and really really
thoughtful and really far along.
And then 12 months later
the marketing, the sales organization
the each of that company that was bought
by the pri- private equity firm the
school down the road, you know,
everything's like, "Boy, we are just not
we're not current. We're going to get
obsolete. Who do we bring in to be in
charge of this change?" Well, you know,
this person works in the future. We need
to get to future.
So I'm like really bullish that product
leaders are going to be like, you know,
like those like dandelion whatever you
call it seeds when you blow it and they
just go everywhere. I have that vision.
Meanwhile, I think a lot of people going
into product might be coming from
design. Might be coming from data
science. Might be coming from
engineering because
the ones that have judgment,
the ones that can talk, the ones that
want to stay current, they might be
like, "Well, what I don't necessarily
want to just stay in my lane. I want I
have a point of view as to how this
should work."
You know, as you said, from a designer
point of view, designers may have a lot
of those skills and opinions on what it
should look like. Maybe their we
platform won't be the pixels or the
visuals, they will be the product itself
and they can adjacently move into
product. So, I think you're going to see
this crazy influx and then this amazing
you know, kind of exodus. And then
you'll also see folks that are like,
"Ooh, I don't know if I can get in." So,
I know that's a confusing and kind of
set of three
changes, but that's explains why so many
people have anxiety. It's all three of
these are happening instantaneously.
>> There's a a line, they thought they'd
buried us. They didn't know that we were
seeds.
That I think about.
>> I love that.
>> We're into a lot of the darker
>> Speaking of that, there's this hilarious
tweet that just came out the other day
that I have here where this guy
describes the only four jobs that will
remain in the future. Uh so, the only
four jobs that will exist in the future.
One is product engineer vibe coder PM
slop cannon.
Number two is security SRE infra person.
Uh number three is hot people,
which is like, you know, like getting
people to buy your stuff, customer
service and like people the way they
remember there are many ways to be No,
no, here's how they put it. Present that
easy UX to the world is is that
category. And then grown-ups, which is
your
>> Yeah.
>> point of just like adults. Yeah, so.
>> Yeah, I think there's this I I read that
and I agree with that. I mean, I think
the adults exist and I think anyone
that's at the top of their field that
can talk and that's that essentially is
opinionated that can go broad. That's
kind of the third point of hot people.
>> So, that's actually that was reminds me.
So, a Maul, the head of growth at
Anthropic, made this really interesting
point that so much of his time now, more
and more, is alignment
as a product manager. And we were
joking, what's the harder alignment
problem? Aligning people in a company or
like AIs, AGI? And and I and it feels
like that's like a remaining and it's
part of what you described, somebody
that can get done, a change agent.
And a big part of that is like what a PM
often is doing a lot of their time is a
like creating alignment internally
around what we will be doing, what we're
purchasing, that kind of thing.
>> Yeah, and I think that if you dissect
what alignment looks like, a lot of
alignment was getting people the right
information, the ground level truth.
That problem is dramatically better.
That part of the job, frankly, just
absolutely sucked. Whether it was the
status report or put, you know, I I was
on projects where there was like docs
that were sent to me and then I would
change the doc to then send it to my
boss and then that boss would send it to
his, you know, and it was just like this
movement of information where the ground
truth was buried in some part of the
organization and then there were like
all these people that were putting on
their spin.
That, I think, is changing.
But, to your point, now someone has to
decide and someone has to have an
opinion on what to fight for. And that
conversation
is now much clearer to have cuz you know
the ground truth, there's less spin. You
know, the CEO can literally ask their
agent, "Well, what is the situation?
What is How is this performing? What
does this customer really want? You
know, how does this affect the system?
You know, is this really something that
we want to change the product to
enable?" So, that conversation can
happen, but now people can like fight it
out,
you know, with with with real with real
credence, right? And and if you're a
product person that that really does
have an opinion and wants to make a
point, you you have a forum. So,
alignment won't go away. It's just It's
not going to have as much theatrics. And
I think a lot of companies that are
larger do have theatrics that I think
the eyes are going to remove. And I
don't know many PMs. There's some that
lived for the theatrics, but frankly,
most of them are like, "This just seems
like a freaking waste of time." I mean,
it's so telling that 80% I bet you this
is a statement of 80% if you truly ask
their you know, your PM, "Do you really
want that boss's boss job? Would you
want their day? Not the pay, not the
credibility, not the stature, but do you
want their block back-to-back meetings?"
I bet you most of them would say no.
And what I'm suggesting to you is that
answer's going to change in the next 2
years.
>> What's really also interesting is as
much as this role is changing,
engineering is changing even more.
And in my what I feel like is that the
engineers that will continue to thrive
are just are basically going to become
more PM-y.
Because the coding part is now going to
be solved. And now it's just what should
we build? Is this great? Is this the
direction we want to go? Is this going
to What does success look like? So, if
you're like, "Oh my job is
changing." Just imagine being an
engineer right now and how crazy that
must feel.
>> Yeah, and I think the one advantage that
engineers have is they think in systems.
And they thinks they think about
obsolescence more effectively. So, I
think that you know, when you make a
change, you have to decide is this
change going to be sustainable in the
product that you're offering. I think an
engineer has an edge there.
I think an the other edge they have is
like, "I bet you we can build this to be
more automated, to be simpler." I think
those are the
>> already goes there. Yeah.
>> Yeah, so I think that every one of us
like the product person probably has a
little bit of an edge in judgment and
communication. The engineer is going to
have a little bit of edge in the system
scaling and how does this change affect
folks. The designer is going to have a
little bit of an edge with taste.
And all of these things will still
remain important. And you know,
obviously people that have all of these
will do better than those that have one
or two, but the industry is more than
safe as evidenced by the report that
there's more hiring.
And I think it's going to grow. It's
just different class of individual.
That's what we're trying to communicate.
>> Uh the design piece is really surprising
to me. The fact that the this data show
that the number of design roles is
plateauing and just how teams are just
not uh
valuing design as much as you think.
Like you would think that design becomes
much more important as the number of
products
grows exponentially. That it's like a a
way to stand out to build something
really beautiful and an
and ex- and have a really
thought-through experience. And it's
interesting that that's not happening
right now. Also, just I've been thinking
about like like there's no world where
I'm a great designer. I can't just like
use AI and become a great designer.
Unlike an engineer,
like maybe a PM, I could become a much
better PM with AI. AI is not going like
it will, you know, do some cool stuff,
but I'm never going to feel like I am a
great designer now. So, it's really
interesting the design isn't
more successful right now with the rise
of AI.
>> And it might be that we just don't know
what to make of design in this era. You
know, that might be a piece of it. The
other piece might be just like there's
product builders and then, you know,
product uh you know, information movers
and they're split up. I think that there
are
pixel generators
and then there are taste makers.
And I worry that in design maybe the
industry itself conflates design with
more production and not with taste. And
so, I think there's a lot of companies
that you would talk to and even when
they were hiring head of a
they were thinking more around we need
more production.
And great designers are much more
tastemakers and I think that is probably
that bias is entering into the hiring
plans in this area that we have today.
>> What a wild time we are living through
Nikil? Holy holy molly.
>> Yeah, isn't it funny that neither of us
are operational? There are days when I'm
like, man, am I so happy I have the time
to work on this and then other days that
I think this is some of the most
interesting like being operational right
now is quite a ride. And so there's good
good and bad and you know, COVID wasn't
easy and there was a lot of challenges
around you know, working and and seeing
so much change. There's always something
but this one
this one's everything's being questioned
and you know, including how you how you
define joy which I think is just
absolutely fascinating.
>> Chaos is a ladder is as the little
finger
famously said.
Nikil, is there anything that we haven't
covered? Anything else that you think is
important for people to hear? Any other
advice? Anything you want to
double down on before we
wrap up and get to our very exciting
lightning round.
>> I would just say that
there's a lot of room to be optimistic
right now.
But you have to find it within yourself
to recognize that there is a small
period of change and exhaustion that's
required to find that moment of joy.
And I just urge everyone to find those
reserves to get there because once you
do it's infectious.
But the longer you wait the harder it is
to cross that chasm.
And so I really want people to feel
optimistic and find that moment of joy.
But I also recognize that there is a lot
of activation energy that it takes to
get there and so my hope is that you
know, you you and there's a There's a of
people going through it. And so you
know, there's some safety in numbers
here, but definitely I urge everyone to
try their hand at
rethinking their craft.
>> And just to be clear, you are seeing
many people in the community
doing well, enjoying this, thriving.
This is possible.
>> Yeah, it's smiling exhaustion.
I see it in my community. Everyone and
before it was just
exhaustion.
I take smiling exhaustion over
Um but the pace is relentless. I I don't
have any uh
There's nothing I can say to sugarcoat
that point.
>> What a time to be alive. Well, Nikhil,
with that we've reached our very
exciting lightning round. I've got five
questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Go. Go for it.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> You know, Lenny, I'm not a reader.
So, I don't you know, I don't I I I I
hate to admit this, but
I kind of vibe code instead of most
consumption of code right
content right now.
You know, all of the reading I do is
like trying to stay up-to-date and that
was a casualty.
You know, so I don't listen to as many
podcasts as I want to. I don't read as
much as I want to
um because I have so much information
coming from the agents that I have
deployed and all the stuff that's going
on with you know, on on Reddit and X and
all that. So, I I don't have a great
book suggestions not unlike you know,
all your other um
all your other guests that are great at
this. You know, they they read
prolifically and you know, I I I just
don't. I mean, I'll tell you I I I read
um
I
I don't know how much I loved it and
I'll just leave it in here in case
people are interested, but
I read this book called James.
Which James is um the story of
Huckleberry Finn
told from uh Jim's point of view.
I thought that was absolutely
fascinating because anytime you take a
classic and then you look at it through
the eyes of someone else and what you
realize is that story is quite powerful
but you know, very haunting.
And when you read Huckleberry Finn,
you're a kid.
So, the distinction between seeing the
innocence as not only the book was
written from Twain's perspective who was
quite forward-thinking by the way. But
you remember you were a kid at the time
and now as an adult you see the the book
from another angle. I thought that was
interesting. I don't know if I'd
recommend it to your viewer readers but
I I thought I always look for things
that I'm you know, uh unnatural um
stories that exist you know, right in
plain sight. So, that was an example of
that.
>> I think somebody else has actually
recommended that book. So, that's the
second mention.
Uh next question, do you have a favorite
recent movie or TV show? You've already
shared some vibe coding favorites to be
in the background, anything else?
>> Yeah, I mean I think everyone's talking
about Paradise. I I mean if you haven't
watched the season 1 and season 2, it's
on
>> Oh, is season 2 out? I didn't realize
that.
>> Season 2 just is almost wrapping up and
I haven't watched season 2 yet but you
know, it's a little apocalyptic in
nature but it's absolute fascinating
character drama about how um you know,
how people deal with you know, very very
challenging times
uh and what motivates individuals. The
other one that I really like is Lioness
which is on Paramount Plus um
Lioness is a story
uh really about uh sort of a covert CIA
group and how they deal with you know,
protecting security for America and the
importance and what it means to commit
to a bigger cause. I thought that was a
really well-written show. So, both of
those I recommend. I do watch a ton of
television and uh and and as I mentioned
I I live code to certain shows and these
two I don't live code to cuz I have to
pay attention.
>> That's the ultimate That's the new bar
of something's great.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay, do you have a favorite product you
recently discovered that you really
love? Could be an app, could be some
gadget, could be some something else.
>> My favorite product that I've discovered
of late might be
kind of obvious to a lot of folks, but
I
um
you know, I'm not a car guy. So, I'll
just start by saying that though I've
enjoyed kind of riding like the new
newer electric cars, I just I'm not
There's a large large number of people
that love cars and love driving cars and
you know, talking about cars and
repairing cars. That looks like the
opposite of me. I just want my car to be
super reliable.
Um and I've had a Tesla for a really
long time. I'm a model S for just a long
time and then I've had it since pretty
much they came out with them.
And they my daughter recently passed her
driving exam.
And because she passed her driving exam,
uh
one day my wife said, "Hey, you know, we
got to get her a car." I was like, "We
do?"
I never actually connected the dots that
she's going to need to drive a car. And
I was like, "Well, where is she going to
go?" And eventually I'm like, "Okay,
maybe we should buy her a car, but she's
not going to drive that much. Maybe I
should use this as an opportunity to
upgrade my car."
And so, I drove the latest Teslas that
are out there and the ones with the the
self-driving.
And
the self-driving works quite well, just
to be clear. I mean, I I have it now for
the last month and about 95% of the time
I self-drive.
But the most interesting thing is
I had no idea that I actually have mild
anxiety when I drive that goes away when
I self-drive.
And I had no idea. And I my my wife
noticed it when we were driving up to
the mountains one day and it was crazy
snowing and I'm like, "We're going to do
it." And she's like, "You are so anxious
when you drive." And I'm like, "I am."
Because, Lenny, I've been driving since
I was 14 years old, cuz I grew up in
Kansas. And so, I passed the test when
you were I was 14. So, I've been driving
literally for on nearly 40 years.
And I had no idea as I've gotten older
that this pressing a button and going
places and it's like it's just so
awesome. So, anyway, the reason why that
experience is a change Yeah, there's the
tech and all that. It's just like I look
for ways to reduce my anxiety. Anything
that causes anxiety, I try to eliminate
in this point of my life, and this is
one of them. So, that's a cool product
for me.
>> I love that as a rule. I've also become
all in on self-driving. I've had a Tesla
for a long time, from the beginnings of
their explorations into self-driving,
and it was always just like, I don't
know, this is scary. And now it's the
opposite. Like, my wife prefers I
self-drive, even though I drive well.
She just like feels safer when the
self-driving is on. There's
And there's And there's this like in the
actual settings, they give you a stat of
what percentage of your driving is
self-driving, and they noted it's since
14.2, I think was the release something
like that. So, that was like the release
that everyone started being like, "Wow,
it's actually very good now." And I
don't think a lot of people realize that
it's actually incredibly good. Like, I
haven't had a single concerning moment.
>> This is one of those examples in product
where so many people tried the previous
versions that when you then tell your
friend a lot of people have Teslas
obviously in California but then across
the world, when you tell your friends, a
lot of people are like, "Oh yeah, I
tried it and I turned it off." So, I
think Tesla's got this unusual challenge
of getting people to turn it back on.
And obviously, the newer hardware is
better than the older one and the new
software, but once you go through one
experience, it can be hard to convince
someone to try it again, and that's an
adage in product and certainly applies
here.
>> It's a downside of releasing early
enough, and sometimes it people just
have this memory of what it might be. I
feel like I feel like this is like Uber
where you almost to just start hearing
about it from your friends
telling you, "Hey, I'm doing this
thing." I'm like, "Wait, really? I guess
I should try it." Yeah.
>> Yeah, I figured Yeah, they ought to just
like So, here's a Tesla suggestion for
anyone who's listening is Lenny and I
should be able to gift 30 days free to
our friends
of self-driving, people that have turned
it off because the referral of that
that plus the endorsement allows people
to experience it for free and then they
can get their monthly subscription.
>> Great idea.
>> That uh
that viral plus enablement, I think it's
a is is a growth technique that, you
know, they can have for free from us.
>> Such such a good idea. By the way, I
love Mad Max mode. We're I love that
just the personality of stuff just
Are you a hurry mode guy or are you a
standard mode guy?
>> I flip between them, but I do feel like
I'm hoping that the new release of the
software keeps us in lane. Like, I don't
love it changing lanes, but it's
>> Oh, like we're just trying to hurry a
little bit.
>> Yeah, I wish I could just get it to go
at a normal speed, but also don't change
lanes cuz I just don't like the rapid
acceleration.
>> Okay. Next question. Do you have a
favorite life motto that you find
yourself coming back to you in work or
in life?
>> Uh my high school quote in my yearbook
still is my motto, which is
"Genius is 1% inspiration, 99%
perspiration."
Um by Albert Einstein. It's It's
something that
even at an early age and you know, it's
not about genius being capital G, you
know, I wasn't a New York comic. It was
more like hard work is really what
matters in life.
What's interesting is if you read that
quote, "Genius is 1% inspiration, 99%
perspiration" through the lens of AI,
>> Right.
>> it's absolutely fascinating cuz it turns
out the AI will do the perspiration.
>> Unlimited perspiration.
>> So, I I what we're leading towards is we
all need to
moving to a world where we're all going
to be inspired and it's the inspired
individuals and all of us that will that
will you know essentially continue to
proliferate and don't worry about the
perspiration but recognize that it's it
is the perspiration that that is that is
a necessity to make things go so
anyway I I I think it's an interesting
quote especially in today's era.
>> Final question.
People may have noticed that we started
collaborating on your podcast and your
newsletter.
It's this it's such an underappreciated
under I don't know seen
thing that you do. This podcast this
newsletter it fills such a gap in
in the content out there around product
building of just like very tactical
important non-sugar coated career advice
for people in product. Um and it's what
I love about it is it's not AI most of
the time in spite of this conversation
we just had it's like very much like
here's stuff you need to know
that is not flashy and shiny AI AI AI
all the time. So I'm going to give you a
chance just to tell people about this
the podcast newsletter just what what
the what the ideas where they where they
can find it.
>> I started this property called Skip
because I really felt that there was a
dearth of content from operators
sharing best practices with
with emerging operators.
And the idea was look I had been a
founder before I'd been an executive
before and I wanted to be in a position
where I can say hey this is exactly what
I experienced and this might apply to
you. And I noticed that most of the
podcasts and the content out there were
from folks that hadn't spent as much
time in operating more time in content
and and I was kind of the opposite. Then
I started building this community that I
spoke about last time which was you know
about 2030 at the time now it's over 125
head of products who are all kind of
these builders top of their game, and
kind of reinventing what product
management looked like.
And our goal is to collectively share
our wisdom as operators to help people
advance in career.
And that probably that calling is
probably more important now than ever is
everything is changing.
Um and so one of the things that we're
launching next month with by the time
that, you know, we end up launching this
episode is something called skip.help
where we have agents that have been
trained and on about 50 of our community
leaders. And so you can go and ask a
question. It might be preparing for
interview. It might be a question around
navigating your current environment. It
might even be, you know, how do I build
a chief of staff app? And 50 of us, not
just me, will respond.
Uh and this is powered by our friends at
writ super me, which is a great startup
that um
that actually by having these agents you
get the sort of wisdom of the crowds.
And so those are the things that I I
love and and obviously there the
community itself is a very um curated
group and it's, you know, there's an
infinite wait list. A lot of people want
to be in it. I'm only growing it slowly
cuz I want to maintain trust. But I do
have this mailing list called skip.coach
where we share our wisdom to a broader
audience. So um I know I've kind of
gotten every single domain name that
starts with skip. Skip community, skip
shows my podcast, skip coach, skip help.
But anyway, go to any of them and you
can try and get all of all of them. I
always appreciate Lenny your your
support and your help and and and and
building this property with me. So it's
been it's been great. You know, when I
came on I don't think I had done my
podcast yet. And now I'm about ready to
hit my 50th episode. And you're an
inspiration and you're you're past 300
obviously and so um
you know, it's fun to see uh how things
change and and some somehow have how
things happen. So it's been great.
>> So fun. Uh I was going to ask you to
share the domains, which you did. so
it's skip.coach, skip.community,
skip.show. And then there's skip
>> Skip.help is the new one.
>> Skip.help which is launching around the
time this goes out. And then you also
have your Substack. I don't know if one
of those takes you there, but it's
theskip.substack.com.
>> Yeah, yeah, exactly. The Skip is the
name of the podcast and newsletter and
skip.show takes us to both.
>> Nikhail, thank you so much for being
here. This was exactly what I was
hoping. I feel like people are going to
leave this feeling like, "Okay, I get it
now. I understand what I need to be
doing."
>> I appreciate that. And you know, thanks
for all you do for the community and for
all the guests that
that you know, you you still have that
I'm probably two dozen of the folks on
Skip that have been on the show or that
will be on the show. So, thanks for
supporting all of our efforts. We're
trying to help as many product builders
as possible and that's a great journey
to be on together.
>> It is. Nikhail, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thanks, Lenny. Thanks, everyone.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.